Lunch & Dinner/Apple Tempeh Fillets.md, before:

# Apple Tempeh Fillets

**Vegan**  
**Servings:** 4  
**Time:** 30 minutes + 12 hours marinating

## Description

Earthy and apple-y: a protein main that tastes like fall.

## Ingredients

### Marinade
- 1 cup **olive oil**
- 1 cup **apple cider**
- 1 **apple**, cut into matchsticks
- 1/4 cup **lemon juice**
- 1 Tbsp **apple cider vinegar**
- 1/4 cup **chives**, chopped
- 1/2 a **fennel bulb**, cut into matchsticks; reserve fronds as a garnish
- 2 Tbsp fresh **mint**, finely chopped
- 2 tsp **garlic**, finely chopped
- (optional) 2 Tbsp fresh **dill**, finely chopped

### Tempeh
- 1 lb **tempeh**
- 1 Tbsp **liquid aminos**

## Instructions

1. Mix together the marinade in a tupperware. Cut the tempeh into 1/4-inch-thick and marinate for 4+ hours in the fridge, ideally overnight.
2. Remove the tempeh from the marinade and saute it over medium heat until golden on both sides and crisp. If needed, do this in multiple batches and/or throw a little olive oil in the pan before adding the tempeh.
3. Extract all solids from the marinade and add them to the pan with all the tempeh. Cook on medium-high heat, stirring frequently, for a couple minutes to evaporate any remaining liquid.
4. Sprinkle the liquid aminos over the tempeh and serve.

## Variations

## References

Plum: Gratifying Vegan Dishes from Seattle's Plum Bistro by Makini Howell (Apple Tempeh Fillets, 79)

Commit message:

adding more favorites and tweaks

Lunch & Dinner/Apple Tempeh Fillets.md, after:

# Apple Tempeh Fillets

**Vegan**  
**Servings:** 4  
**Time:** 30 minutes + 12 hours marinating

## Description

Earthy and apple-y: a protein main that tastes like fall.

## Ingredients

### Marinade
- 1/2 cup **olive oil**
- 1 cup **apple cider**
- 1 **apple**, cut into matchsticks
- 1/4 cup **lemon juice**
- 1/4 cup **liquid aminos**
- 1 Tbsp **apple cider vinegar**
- 1/4 cup **chives**, chopped
- 1/2 a **fennel bulb**, cut into matchsticks; reserve fronds as a garnish
- 2 Tbsp fresh **mint**, finely chopped
- 2 tsp **garlic**, finely chopped
- (optional) 2 Tbsp fresh **dill**, finely chopped

### Tempeh
- 1 lb **tempeh**
- 1 Tbsp **liquid aminos**

## Instructions

1. Mix together the marinade in a tupperware. Cut the tempeh into 1/4-inch-thick and marinate for 4+ hours in the fridge, ideally overnight.
2. Strain the solids from the marinade and saute over medium-high heat. To get a really even texture, separate out the tempeh first and cook in a thin layer until golden on both sides before adding the other solids. If you're lazy like me, throw it all in the pan on higher heat and stir often.
3. Cook, stirring frequently, until the tempeh is turning golden and crisp and the liquid has evaporated. Sprinkle in more liquid aminos to taste.

## Variations

## References

Plum: Gratifying Vegan Dishes from Seattle's Plum Bistro by Makini Howell (Apple Tempeh Fillets, 79)
